Significance for neuroanatomy

YF: --------------------------------

I would start with something intended to a broader audience, with
little or no familiarity with sections/stains/structures, and say what
is the significance *of* neuroanatomy, before saying what the
significance of our methods *for* neuroanatomy.

something along the lines of:

Big data technology for neuroscience has been advancing by leaps and bounds
over the past decades. It is now possible to simultanuously record the
activity of XXX neurons, use mathilation tags (?) to identify different
types of neurons...
However, a persistent challange is to combine experimental results
from different brains in different modalities ..... 
-----------------------------

Neuroanatomical observations depend on mapping data from images,
obtained as consecutive planar sections, to reference brains.

This
presents a number of challenges. In many cases the individual sections
may carry distortions, and further need to be aligned to form a
three-dimensional representation of a brain. The second challenge is
the identification of brain structures. Classically, this relies on
the use of a stain, i.e., a labels that marks a restricted part of the
brain cells and allows both individual cells and clusters of like
cells to be identified. This is an art form

YF: -------------------------------
Instead of "art form" I would say "requires significant
expertise and many hours of work". I would also say something about
the need to create work-flows that combine less 
expert annotators (Julian and Marissa) and more expert annotators
(Beth) to achieve the required throughput with sufficient accuracy.
--------------------------------

, as different stains highlight different organelles of brain cells
and different sectioning techniques reveal yield seemingly different
textures in the organization of neurons. Currently, human scanning is
used to find the best match of a given structure, from the subject
brain, to an annotated reference brain atlas. This match to sample
approach does not readily support assessment of observational
differences between laboratories nor provide a means for assessing and
compensating for common systematic errors.

Critically, human observers
do not provide a path toward either understanding of critical features
that define a structure nor a means toward automation.

YF: -------------------------------
I don't understand the last sentence. In my mind, it is a question
of resources. My assumption is that the "ground truth" is achievable
by an expert anatomist spending sufficient time. What we are
attempting to do is (1) save anatomist time (2) allow less expert
anatomist to do the task (3) provide meaningful confidence levels and
(4) provide explanations for the confident predictions.
---------------------------------

New objective machine learning methods for brain structure recognition
rely on features related to brain cell geometry and the spatial
distribution of neighboring. Methods that use machine learning based
on convolutional neural networks have been shown to work in special
applications; however, it has not been clear how these learning
methods work. An alternative ML approach, that we present here, is to
explicitly utilize a diffusion map of geometrical cell features in
order to probabilistically identify the centroid of brain structures
in images stacks from serially sectioned brains.  The centroids
provide objective sign posts for rapid human verification of brain
structure position. This approach represents an advance where each
brain is self-annotated into an observable atlas, as the structure
identifications are documented within the subject brain images.
